guys this is a long thoughtful video
I've gotta warn you in case you didn't
already get the sense of that from the
timestamp it's a long video and it
brings in a whole lot of different
examples from my life and from corners
of politics I care about it talks about
First Nations peoples in Canada I think
it probably mentions Cambodia I mean it
brings up political and personal issues
and it presents I think a complicated
and important problem in a suitably
complex way I remember the high school
principal's office when you were sitting
to wait to talk to the principal if you
were in trouble when I was in high
school there was a poster on the wall
and it had like a photograph of a kitten
and it said for every complex problem
there was a simple solution and I so
wanted to take out a pen and deface that
poster by writing and it is wrong you
really need to beware of people who
offer you simple solutions to complex
problems this is a complex problem and I
presented here in all its complexity so
you ain't got the time or attention span
you don't want to do it now wait until
you're washing dishes and then listen
the video that if I got to dumb it down
now in the intro or in the outro or what
have you I have said this in other
videos if you picture the impact you
have on the environment as a sphere or a
circle drawing around yourself all the
negative impacts the jet fuel you use
the plastics you use the fact that when
you buy wheat the farming of the wheat
uses of pesticides and uses of water and
kills groundhogs even if you're vegan
all of these negative impacts it's
really counterproductive to adopt a
mentality as a vegan activist where
you're trying to change the world just
by shrinking down that circle that's a
view of the movement that's based on the
assumption that you're really a passive
consumer in a consumerist reductionist
in this sense boycott movement right and
what I'm encouraging you to do in this
video to a sort of complex discussion of
a whole bunch of different examples is
instead to think of yourself as someone
who can make a positive difference
politically that's much more effective
that matters much more within our
lifetimes and long-term than just
eliminating the amount of plastic you
buy or the number of liters of jet fuel
use up in your life
an example I used an earlier video is
what if you're running for mayor I'm
sorry forget mayor what if you're
writing for prime minister of the
country you come from Prime Minister of
Canada if you're running for government
you're running for Prime Minister of
Canada it doesn't even matter if you
think you can win if you think you've
got a message that's really worth
delivering to the public you're gonna
use up all the jet fuel you can flying
from town to town visiting one place
after another shaking people's hands
giving speeches reaching out to people
trying to deliver that message through
the limited political platform you've
got to make whatever kind of positive
about you can so obviously let's say
you're running for prime minister as a
representative of the Green Party you
probably don't have a shot at winning
but maybe there are five or ten
important issues you can shine a
flashlight on try to spotlight on you
can draw public attention see if you
believe that what you're doing is
worthwhile you're gonna burn the jet
fuel to accomplish that end and
sometimes have the most impact to have
the greatest effect in peace and war in
politics and your personal life whether
you're writing a novel that you really
believe believe in or you're pursuing a
political and pick campaign you believe
in or you're actually fighting a war
right now to try to defeat Isis or some
other objective of this kind whatever
the objective is it's it's really
misleading to think in terms of
minimizing your negative impacts to the
point where you overlook how you're
gonna maximize your positive impacts in
the whole this video I said it a bunch
of the other considerations as to why
that is one of the most fundamental
being were not in a situation where
vegans are just trying to become 51% of
the population or ninety percent of the
population to win through consumer
activism alone vegans can have a huge
impact on society in politics if they
get organized when there are only five
percent of the population but if they
think of themselves as minimizing their
impact through consumption only if they
remain consumerist boycott individual
activists in this way then the impact
they can have will wait until they're
such a huge part of the market that
their impact on market demand is
something that corporations know they're
for profit seeking entities are going to
respond to passively it's a passive view
of the movement in this video at some
length in some complexity what I'm
advocating for instead is a genie
politically genuinely activists through
the movement where you embrace and
accept the fact that you're gonna do
some harm in this world you're gonna use
up some jet fuel and some plastics but
you're gonna do it do it in a meaningful
way with the maximum positive impact the
maximum positive outcomes not just
minimizing your negative outcomes and
why am I saying this because still to
this day literally today and yesterday a
bunch of people Internet we're still
coming to me and talking about veganism
from this perspective were they really
assumed in a deep level that the logic
purpose and function of the movement was
merely to minimize you negative impact I
can see why they arrived at that
attitude I myself came to veganism out
of ecology it's very easy to think that
the mechanism whereby veganism is going
to pursue social change is the same
mechanism whereby you go around and try
to convince people to take fewer showers
so they don't waste water but it's not
the mechanism whereby we're gonna pursue
social change is actually the same as
the gay rights movement if gay rights
had to wait until 51% of the population
was gay to bring about gay rights it
never would have made progress a much
smaller percentage whether it's five
percentage will have you can bring about
fundamental political and social change
especially in a democracy through
lobbying through public education
through pressing for that change but not
you passive consumer centered action
that's merely trying to mitigate or
minimize your negative impact a bonus
Yin BA Liu Yin hey guys one of the most
important issues ever dealt with on my
channel is the fundamental concept that
when I engage in veganism as an
ecological and political movement I am
NOT trying to minimize my negative
impact on the world I'm trying to
maximize my positive impact in the world
as simple and even stupid as that may
say it's a really fundamental issue
because of begin again things that are
misleading but true are much more
dangerous than lies and I see a lot of
vegans like literally even today but
this week I've talked to a lot of vegans
who are really stuck on the notion that
their role as an ISIL
consumer minimizing the impact they have
in the world ecologically is of
preeminent importance they think of
veganism as a boycott and as a boycott
only they think of veganism as a form of
economic efficiency and by thinking in
those terms they come to bizarre and
self contradictory positions that are
logical but unethical for example they
argue to me that there will be a net
positive impact in the world if they use
leather shoes or if they eat roadkill
they eat meat that wasn't specifically
killed in north to eat because this will
indirectly cause them to buy less
broccoli and serve them now there were a
lot of things that are wrong with this
mentality but I'm saying here I'm just
drawing attention back to the caviar it
made the problem is not that these
things are absolutely and categorically
false things that are absolutely false
are relatively easy for people to shrug
off to discard to move past the reason
why these notions are so dangerous
within veganism is that they're just
true enough to warp with the movement
will have to keep not buying these
products and buying the other products
for them to realize that we need to stop
class a lot of products get wasted along
the way and that's quite hard to deal
with and we can use that as a
justification to keep eating animals but
you know 500 people stopped buying the
regular milk and start buying the soy
milk they put like two less crates of
that in the supermarket very slowly we
start to see a less demand for the
farmers so they stopped breeding as many
animals and and then there will suddenly
start to realize there's less profit in
the business and then think okay so as
you got from even those few seconds this
view of the world he's describing is one
of consumer centered activism the idea
that gradually a larger and larger
percentage of people are refusing to
drink cow milk and thus as he says
stores stop buying cow milk and then
cows stop being bred to live their whole
lives in captivity to produce cow milk
etc and that view basically entails that
we only achieve a vegan world or a vegan
society or even a vegan town when we get
way past 51% of the population being
vegan so as a matter of fact my view my
really explicitly
view of veganism is much more optimistic
because I think that 5% of people can
have a dynamic impact on society and
I've seen that again and again it is not
the case that homosexuals needed to
become 51% of society to get their
changes to the laws passed it is not the
case that activists who were against
cigarette smoking had to become 51% of
the population to get their changes to
our society passed and they're quite
dramatic
these are success stories there are also
tragic failures I think I think we can
look at you know the status of First
Nations people in Canada or indigenous
people of minority groups that failed to
put together the aspects necessary to
succeed as lobbyists to bring about the
political changes they wanted my view of
veganism is that we can win with 5% his
view of veganism is we could only win
with something like 90% and that's why
he's so depressed he actually is
thinking of this short term and long
term as a kind of consumer boycott and
again we could just come back to a
simple example like cigarette smoking
the anti-smoking movement is not just a
boycott movement they're not just trying
to boycott cigarettes it's also a public
education movement it's a public policy
movement because they're trying to stop
everyone from smoking cigarettes it so
it's oppressive we're all pressing the
cigarette smokers I admit it but this is
part of a grander design for social
change that we're engaged in pursuing
what percentage of Canadians were ever a
part of that movement wherever part of
an actual organized political movement
to bring about social change to
gradually eliminate cigarette smoking
and do not so gradually at all
stigmatize cigarette smoke ease that's
what is is a stigma I don't even think
5% of Canadians ever got organized or
ever got engaged but we managed to
achieve that social change I I doubt I
really doubt 10% of people were really
active and organized in gay rights
movements it's probably if you could get
a realistic estimates probably much
smaller than that but I do think that
the boycott mentality within veganism is
actually problematic the boycott
mentality takes us so far but only so
far and no further and we have to move
past that and I did I'm sorry maybe I
should dig up that podcast and actually
upload part of it to YouTube because
really good discussion and a lot of
people said to me response to that wow I
never thought about that before but it's
true veganism it partly is a boycott
movement and it partly is not so I have
a couple of videos talking about this
but I noticed when I look back at those
earlier videos I mentioned in them that
the mean place I covered this issue was
in a podcast that previously was not
available on YouTube if you search for
the word boycott on this channel oh I
think it's on this channel but I also
did a whole podcast on the boycott
mentality within veganism and I think
that's a patreon only podcast so I'm
sorry I forget to what extent it's on
YouTube nor descends on patreon and to
be honest I think even the vast majority
of my patreon supporters have never
heard this podcast it was recorded while
I was in an airport in response to a
picture of you er now there's a lot of
folksy autobiographical window dressing
for this podcast it talks about what's
going on in my life it talks about how I
came to these conclusions but I urge you
to stick with it because there is
actually a really important
methodological philosophical and
political point here which is that it
seems salutary to vegans it seems useful
to many of us within the movement it
seems as if it's a really positive thing
to preach this movement in terms of
reducing the amount of plastic use to
zero reducing the amount of jet fuel use
to zero reducing the negative impact you
have in the world through buying even
things like wheat and broccoli to zero
and this is a sort of phony
consequentialism a sort of phony
utilitarianism that is both based upon
and reinforces the idea of the vegan as
an isolated consumer of course there's
some truth to that this again my point
it's not that it's entirely wrong the
problem is that there's a little bit of
truth to it and it's misleading to some
extent we all rise lately consumers to
some extent veganism is a boycott and to
some extent it's worthwhile to talk
about veganism in terms of a strictly
consumerist boycott mentality but it is
also misleading dangerous and
self-defeating and I think in this
podcast you'll hear me spell out why the
way we need to think we need to think
ambitiously we need to think about the
future that
in a way that we're willing to burn jet
fuel and waste plastic we're willing to
make the sacrifices necessary to have
the maximum positive impact change the
world not the minimum negative impact
hey what's up this is being recorded not
on my usual iconic white sphere of a mic
but on a portable device that I expect
they'll be using more in China actually
while I'm in Thailand if I were to
interview some people face-to-face this
would be the device I would use I could
conduct interviews with it if I meet
people on the street or what have you
so hopefully the sound quality turns out
okay
I'm gonna respond in this short podcast
to a question from Jake Eames jake has
been mentioned in my youtube channel
before Jake asks a question that's
simple but deep and that matters to his
own life and for me it calls up
philosophical problems that I dealt with
at such an early age that it is
difficult for me to remember how I
responded to these problems although I
can remember discussing it with friends
of mine who were teenagers or what have
you years later people who went through
these these issues and debates
relatively late in life Jake asked me
about basically the problem of
justifying waste and harm in one's own
life the same logic that has made him a
vegan has led him to question
increasingly the use of things like
plastic disposable items disposable
packaging or a disposable pen and how
one can justify doing this kind of harm
doing this kind of waste in life or
conversely how one draws the line the
same kind of ethical principles that
bring you to despise the waste and harm
done by animal agriculture can very
easily lead you to hate the wasted harm
done by the plastic industry although in
many ways they are starkly different as
a pointed out in my channel a long time
ago people quit smoking for many reasons
but nobody quit smoking because they
want
to reduce the suffering of the tobacco
plant I think it's also fair to say that
nobody is trying to reduce their use of
plastic for the sake of the plastic
itself whereas you know with pigs and
cows there is a real sense of the
welfare and suffering of the animals
themselves so it is in a different
category of questions but nevertheless
these are these are important questions
that many people struggle with and as
I've said I deal with at a very very
very early age now there are advantages
and disadvantages to the way I live my
life I am really aware that the
solutions I have to these problems are
not solutions that work for everyone and
I'm very honest with myself about the
disadvantages that I endure as a result
of seeing the world the way I do for me
these problems really come under the
heading of what you are living your life
for positively the objectives you're
pursuing the justification for the harm
you do is relative to the positive
outcomes you're pursuing I don't start
from the assumption that my life is
merely a matter of self-indulgence
consumption wasting time on this mortal
plane of existence until I die
I very much assume that I'm an active
protagonist trying to accomplish real
and meaningful things and the harm I do
in this world is then evaluated next to
that standard I have met a few people in
my life only a few who absolutely do not
think of themselves this way who really
do think of themselves as passive and as
spending up a certain amount of money
and getting a certain amount of joy
menteur the world before they die there
are people who not accidentally whose
self consciously assert a totally
different view of the world there are
many many different views of how we live
our lives in the world now among the
disadvantages of my approach to this
life is that what I'm separated from the
goals I'm pursuing of course I suffer
when I moved to Saskatchewan Canada a
part of Canada that is not famous and
I'm sure
many of you would have never heard of
before if you come to my YouTube channel
when I moved to this you know somewhat
ugly frozen horrible part of Canada I
moved there to work on First Nations
languages First Nations politics etc I
had a whole career path in mind and
those were highly morally motivated
goals I was pursuing okay
wasn't about money wasn't about enjoying
myself wasn't on vacation wasn't having
a good time now the minute that became
impossible let me know for quite some
time for more than a year I was actually
very much engaged in exactly that work
the work of studying the languages
learning about the history getting
involved in the political discourse of
the political struggle whatever you want
to say that was my life for more than
one year although not that much more
than a 12-month year I forget how long
it lasted now it could have been a year
and a half but I forget offhand but
anyway for a relatively short intense
period that was the objective I was
working towards and it justified not
only the harm I do to this world in
terms of ecological damage it justified
the suffering I was enduring because I
suffered a lot in many many different
ways that was another long period of my
life where I never had a desk never had
never really had you know a place of my
own and what-have-you
in in god the food is terrible being a
vegan in Saskatchewan a whole misery in
many different levels now this is only
one example from one period of my life
my point here was to say that the minute
I was cut off from that goal then
suddenly you know it's emotionally
devastating to me I've sacrificed
everything I've given up many other
things I could have been doing my life
and things that I really was doing in my
life I've cut off all my other research
projects my other careers from other
directions to devote myself to this and
now all that is for nothing
now I've had that kind of shattering
devastating experience many times in my
life
but my point here in replying to the
question from Jake and advising him is
to say look I'm not telling you I have
the best solution of this problem I'm
telling you that I have one solution to
this problem among many and it has both
advantages and disadvantages now I'll
use an extreme example before coming
back to a moderate example let's talk
about a war and a war you want to fight
is there gonna be wastes in the war yes
waste beyond belief if you just look at
gasoline use in warfare it is horrifying
the amount of casts any any large of
military wastes I mean that sincerely
now obviously things like plastic are
not even thought about the dumping of
incredibly damaging chemicals into the
ground including chemicals that are
developed for chemical warfare by by
military groups is you know again
astounding in general ecological impacts
of military interventions are on another
scale from merely industrial impacts I
could mention why that sick both it was
some of the most notorious of course are
things like the use of Agent Orange of
chemical agents in Vietnam and so on but
actually whenever you study any
particular war in detail there are these
crummy little episodes that reveal how
how utterly ecology was was devastated
for sake of the war but now I'm saying
this to challenge myself here's a war I
believe I would support given my current
level of knowledge and my current level
of ignorance from my perspective Mexico
is falling apart you can look up the
Freedom House report on Mexico democracy
in Mexico has failed there are large
areas of Mexico where literally you know
drug dealers control the government
where you know police can't do the
normal work police do and so on where
armed gangs and cartels have a kind of
powwow over people's lives in the land
that's terrifying there's been a
disintegration of basic social order in
Mexico and Mexico is not a far-off and
exotic place it really impacts our
in both Canada in the United States very
directly would I support a military
intervention in Mexico not to conquer
Mexico and I want Mexico to become part
of Canada but to try to restore law and
order to try to impose you know that
local level from village to village you
know
mayors and police forces and working
government and to get rid of profound
corruption that they have in their
government there to put in place some
set of transitional authorities and to
avoid an even worse humanitarian
disaster as Mexico currently is falling
apart and all this of course is a fringe
benefit you would be reducing you know
human trafficking drug trafficking and
many other problems I've got to tell you
with Mexico my answer is yes and I mean
that is a real-world example right now
in 2016 so in many contexts I'm anti-war
or I'm skeptical of war I'm trying to
minimize war but there are other
contexts in which I look at the facts
and I am NOT an expert on Mexico don't
get me wrong I'm very far from Mexico
but very far from an expert on Mexico
but based on the facts as I know them in
my considerable that ignorance I look at
Mexico and I think this is a disaster
and I can't believe there isn't some
kind of United Nations intervention or
some kind of NATO intervention or a few
to stabilize this country now if that
goal is worth pursuing then waste
terrible unfathomable waste waste far
beyond you know a disposable plastic pen
is going to be justified in pursuit of
that goal so I as an individual I think
in the same way that political
organizations think in that I am
goal-oriented yes there will be
decisions about how much waste is is
made along the way but ultimately you're
talking about wasting human lives also
you're talking about a cost in killing
human beings with wasting resources and
again gasoline alone unfathomable even
in very small wars because you have
airplanes you know an airplane that can
transfer
or a tank burns a lot of gas you know
and even the boats they use to transport
heavy heavy equipment and logistics
unbelievable use of resources for even
very minor conflicts now again I'm not
saying this to try to make your use of a
disposable plastic pen seem
insignificant I'm not my point is not
that there's larger waste in the world
therefore don't worry about your waste
my point is to say you have to evaluate
the waste and the harm that you're
responsible for relative to your goals
in life and that's why fermi goals and
objectives are so important when I was
talking to Leah recently Leah pram
stroller young woman interviewed on my
my youtube channel we talked a little
bit about the Joe best scandal and the
other the other sex scandals involving
vegans in Thailand and I said you were
honestly something I would say again now
you know after we had talked about it
for some time I said look you know I've
got to tell you these guys were talking
about I wouldn't care if they lived in
complete celibacy to me they would still
be scumbags you know for me I'm not I am
NOT sex-negative I am sex-positive I do
not demonize sex
I really don't but from my perspective
these guys who are living on permanent
vacation these guys who are living lives
of self-indulgence and so on in Chiang
Mai or elsewhere to me they are
despicable fundamentally for that reason
the life they're living the goal they're
pursuing to me makes what they're doing
despicable now those guys probably use
about the same amount of plastic I do
and throw away the same amount of
plastic pens that I do and what have you
you know maybe there's some difference I
don't know I'm pretty abstemious my
environmental impacts are pretty
negligible which is not a post my life
as very few luxuries but that's that's
not my point my point is not conserving
in these small ways when I was living in
Thailand I was doing something I really
believed was tremendously
one important for the short-term of the
long-term you guys already know I was
pursuing a combination of humanitarian
work original research learning
languages learning history I think that
is really worthwhile and yes I did use
you know plastic pens
I still use plastic pens right now some
of my pens are refillable some of them
are disposable actually I have one
youtube video but the Pens I use you can
check that out if you're really
interested but the alternative to this
mentality ultimately of guilt which is
fine and it's fine to feel guilt you
know it's fine it's fine to feel guilt
when you're responsible for something
but if feeling guilt about the harm done
the waste done and looking just at
minimizing out minimizing outcomes
minimizing waste minimizing harm oh well
what about the positive side of outcomes
you know you've got to look at input and
output you're expending these things
you're using these things up but you're
using them up to accomplish something I
hope you know that is the difference
between me and Joe best or some white
guy who's just on vacation in Thailand
I didn't look much different from the
white man who on vacation town but what
I was actually doing was different and
for me morally that changes the nature
of the waste of the harm of anything
else going on in my life I don't know I
mean you know look maybe my perspective
is psychologically abnormal like I
honestly don't know maybe most people do
not think that way as I've said the
disadvantage is when you're then
separated from those goals when those
goals become unattainable or when you
you are forced to stop pursuing them
then that's you know you suffer
tremendously I can remember having to
give up my textbooks for the Lao
language and you know weeping I went
very briefly but I had a couple of tears
fall from my eyes because I knew I was
never gonna be able to study that
language again and I'd put in so many
hours of tremendously hard work to learn
the language pardon me to learn the
language now it's not just a language
for me it's not just about language
research to give you an example I
remember interviewing a woman who is
survive the war the the war with the
Americans by you know running through
the countryside and hiding in a cave
with the bombs falling all around her
and she had anecdotes from that period
of her life you know went on for years
it's not one day she went hid in the
cave one of the caves she lived in they
had a chalkboard and a schoolteacher and
the children tried to learn how to read
and write living in a cave I really
wanted to write a short book recording
her life story you know to translate it
and have you know Lao in English and
publish a book with this this chapter of
history to me that's tremendously
meaningful and it's not just research
its moral its ethical it's it's the
meaning of life in some sense I think
I'm making the world a better place by
writing that down and publishing that
book and you know this obviously has
parallels to the type of work I wanted
to do with with First Nations with
indigenous people in Canada for me
writing that book justifies using the
plastic pen and putting that plastic pen
into a landfill and those are hard
questions of personal values objectives
etc and this is why I mentioned war it's
it's very hard to know if you're in a
good war or bad war it's very hard to
know if you're on the right side or the
wrong side when history is happening all
around you it's much easier a hundred
years later to go back and do research
and look at the facts yeah so I mean I
have sympathy for that too most people
make those decisions with none of the
kind of information and intellectual
reflection that I've put into it they
just they just sign on the dotted line
join the army and start fighting and
before you know it they're only thinking
about how they can win and are
interested in winning at any cost and in
the same way I'm sure many people pursue
their objectives and their private lives
in their personal lives even if those
objectives are just self-indulgence
luxury and enjoyment with no other
concern and they are doing it at any
cost and they don't care
how many plastic containers they put
into a landfill etc what's our status
vegans what's it gonna be for us are we
gonna be a bunch of losers with
yoga mats selling weight-loss dreams is
that the future of veganism your choice
you decide are we gonna be as my good
friend Charles Marlow say are we gonna
be a bunch of degenerates selling fad
diet books oh are we gonna put ourselves
into the hippy ghetto or the left-wing
ghetto or the anti-capitalist ghetto or
are we gonna be in the in a sense the
pro capitalist ghetto are we gonna be
just another consumerist fad hobby
selling you you know all the different
ways you can make money out of vegan
cheese or whatever what's it gonna be I
think we can look at the groups that
lobbied for change on cigarettes on
alcohol on drunk driving the groups that
lobby for gay rights I think we can do
better I think as you we have a lot of
advantages over groups that are really
oppressed that are really marginalized
some vegans are rich some vegans are
poor but actually there's no excuse for
what pathetic failures you've been so
far I think with far fewer than 5% of
people becoming vegan we can actually
start lobbying for dynamic social change
and yes some of that is from the
grassroots is from the bottom up but
some of it if we're being honest is from
the top down the view that I'm opposed
to in this video I've criticized in the
past under many different headings
sometimes it's presented within veganism
in terms of minimalism sometimes it's
presented in terms of lifestyle activism
it's branded and conceptualized in many
different ways but all of these things
seem to come down to leading by example
which I've said in the past is not
leading at all simply reforming your own
lifestyle your own attitudes your own
consumer habits and hoping that you're
leading others until you reach some
critical mass whether it's 51 percent or
90 percent and then magically the
slaughterhouses start closing down milk
production meat production and lobster
production start being unprofitable okay
that's not just incorrect it's really
wrong it's really a dangerous delusion
in the movement it wasn't enough for gay
rights to be able to just say oh I'm
just gonna change my own lifestyle
I'm just personally not gonna be
homophobic I'm just gonna change my own
mentality in the way I'm living I'm
gonna lead by example and hope or
imagine that others will follow my
example and at some point we get 51% of
the population and 90% of the population
and things get better for gay people
no the gay rights movement it really
consisted of small groups of people
getting involved in advocacy getting a
lawyer going to City Hall and saying hey
you're firing schoolteachers because of
their private sex lives we've got to
make the case we've got to prove to you
in the government we've got to prove to
the public we've got to prove to the
media we've got to prove to everyone
that it's possible to be a homosexual
man and be a schoolteacher that there's
difference to me a homosexual and being
a pedophile that it's not a danger to
the children that schools can and should
employ homosexuals as equals and believe
me during the 1980s
that was a very hard case to make it's
much easier today for a small group of
vegans to get together and say hey guess
what
leather is obsolete leather releases a
noxious gas known as chromium hexane
that has terrible health impacts on you
and your family the Faculty of a leather
couch in your house right now is doing
harm to you it's bad for the workers who
produce the leather of course it's
terrible for the animals it's terrible
for we call it for ecology we can put
together that argument and we can press
forward with it with an active overtly
political conception of veganism but
we're never going to get there just by
saying oh well I'm gonna throw my own
leather couch in the garbage I'm gonna
get rid of you know I'm gonna make my
own lifestyle changes and lead by
example again whether that's packaged as
minimalism lifestyle activism or by any
other name as I said much earlier in
this video
again a broad ranging very miscellaneous
video the talks of my personal politics
in my personal psychology and its self
critical in addition to being critical
of the movement I don't pretend in this
video that I have all the answers but
something I've said again and again is
we have to learn we have to get
organized and we have to learn how to
make the maximum positive impact not to
be focused on minimizing our negative
impacts the maximum possible positive
impact when we're only 5% of the
population
2% of the population or less that is
going to be the art of the pursuit of
political change for veganism it's not
in fact going to be a passive consumer
centered boycott mode ibonus yen